### Collision Resolution Techniques

The process of finding an alternative address space for a key when a collision occurs is called collision resolution technique.

Even though hashing has collision problems, they are more efficient in many cases compared to other algo and data structures.

There are 3 main collision resolution techniques:
1. Open Addressing
2. Direct Chaining

#### Direct Chaining
If there are multiple keys that map to the same address space, we can store them in a linked list at that address space.

#### Open Addressing

    1. Linear Probing
    2. Quadratic Probing
    3. Double Hashing

    1. Linear Probing - If we have a hashed value that was already assigned then we incremently search for the next avalaible value.

    Eg. If 2 is assigned then we search for 3, then 4 and so on.

    2. Quadratic Probing - If we have a hashed value that was already assigned then we incremently search for the next space by squaring the increment value.

    Eg. If 2 is assigned then we search for 2+1^2, then 2+2^2, then 2+3^2 and so on.

    3. Double Hashing - If we have a hashed value that was already assigned then we incremently search for the next space by using a second hash function.

    Eg. If 2 is assigned then we search for 2+hash2(2), then 2+hash2(2+hash2(2)) and so on.


##### Difference between Separate Chaining and Open Addressing

1. Less computation in Separate Chaining
2. Less memory in Open Addressing
3. Open Addressing is faster in practice
4. Open Addressing is better for cache friendly
5. Waste of space in Separate Chaining
6. Cache friendly in Open Addressing
7. Separate chaining is used when the size of the table is not known in advance, Open Addressing is used when the size of the table is known in advance.
